# Glossary

## ACLs (Access Control Lists) - Permissions
Allow individual users (or user groups) to assign or remove privileges to individual files.

## Display Name
Is an optional viewable name for the user. Other users can view this name.

## Asset
See -> digital asset, a file and its related information (-> Metadata)

## Aspect ratio
Denotes the specification of the page dimensions (width: height)

## Authentication
Is the logon process for the use of easydb as a specific user or user group.

## Autocompletion
When searching, suggestions are generated based on the entered word or words. Easydb searches for suitable words and also for suitable linked records.

## User
Are acocunts that have access to easydb. Users can be created from -> Administrator, other user, or, if activated, via -> Self-Registration. Records can also be shared with unannounced users for research / download via the computer management.

## Changelog (History)
Contains information on the processing history of -> Records.

## Checkbox
Also a selection box, a marking field or a control box, is an operating element in the graphical user interface.

## Data-Class
Distinguishes the type of file: images, videos, audios, office files, and others.

## Data Variant
Are the different resolutions and formats of an original file. These are prepared for downloading.

## Data Version
Is generated by the change to a file / image, e.g. By trimming or turning.

## Data Model
Object types and --> masks are defined in the data model. A distinction is made between *current* and *development*. In the *Development Environment*, you can make adjustments to the data structure without restricting your work with the current structure until it is activated.

## Record (Data)
Means the data fields for the content description of images, as well as the associated image file.

## Record Version
Are generated by changing metadata to records.

## Data Type
Are e.g. Text, numbers, date, links, IDs etc.

## Detail view
Also -> Detail-View shows the asset with metadata right in the view (-> Sidebar). Authorized users can switch from this view into the -> Editor.

## Deep Link
Deep links, if set up, lead to the output of a data record in XML format. No special permissions can be set up for this link.


## Main Object Type
Are records such as pictures, videos and other media. They can be additionally described and supplemented by -> additional object types.

## Main Search (Full Text Search)
Refers to the search input into the -> search field. By default, all search terms are linked to a logical AND. The search can be specialized using -> search operators, -> side search and -> search filters.

## Download 
Refers to transferring one or more files from the easydb to your own computer.

## Upload 
Refers to the front-end-supported transfer of one or more files into the easydb.

## Editor
-> see the capture mask.

## Owner 
The owner (owner) of a record automatically has certain rights. A change of owner requires the right CHANGE_OWNER. Owners can also be groups in easydb.

## Unit
Are indicated e.g. In pixels, mm, cm, KB, MB, GB, etc.

## Editor
Also -> Editor, means the available input form to the content description of the pictures.

## Event log
In the event log, IT administrators can view and export download operations, failed logon attempts, and deleted image information.

## Expert Search
Is an extended search option in the search tab next to the -> main search and the -> Filtertree. This can be searched through the fields.

## Export
Describes the -> download of image and / or XML / CSV files.

## Field Name
The readable name of an (input) field is e.g. Name, title, keyword, date, etc.

## Filter Search
Allows you to limit the hits step by step using filters.

## Hotfolder
Is a --> folder configured for uploading records.

## Kerberos
Is a distributed authentication service. See also -> Single Sign-On (SSO)

## Context Menu
Is a control in the graphical interface. Clicking the right mouse button on a file or record in easydb opens the context menu. If the Ctrl key on the keyboard is simultaneously operated, the context menu of the web browser opens.

## LDAP
Is a directory access protocol. See also -> Single Sign-On (SSO)

## Left Truncation (Left Bound)
See -> truncation

## Lists
Are used to manage -> object types and the related records.

## Mapps (Collections)
Are collections. Authorized users have the possibility to create folders and collect pictures there. Folders can also be used to provide other users with images, e.g. For processing.

## Mapping
Refers to the reading and writing of metadata. Thus, when uploading a file, metadata can be read out and mapped into database fields. When exporting, all metadata associated with the asset can be written to the file. It is possible to define different profiles for the mapping.

## Masks
Refers to a defined input mask which makes input fields available to the user in the front end. These can be defined by the administrator, depending on the context.

## Multilingual
Easydb offers the possibility to activate several languages ​​for the application (system), the data and the search, if this function has been installed. Please refer to [Language Settings](../webfrontend/userprefs/language/language.md) for the settings.

## Meta Data
The information about data, E.g., information that may be contained in image files (e.g., IPTC, XMP, EXIF).

## Mouse over
See -> Tooltip

## Side Object Type
Are records that can supplement the main object types descriptively and can be appended thereto, e.g. Photographers, categories, keywords, etc. They can be searched for, changed and deleted via -> lists.

## SideSearch
The advanced search options -> expert search in the search and and the search in lists in the editor.

## ObjectType
Describe the structure of the data in the database. For object types you can distinguish between -> main object types and -> secondary object types. This distinction is substantive and does not relate to the technical level.

## on-the-fly
In the so-called on-the-fly calculation, no data is stored on the easydb server. The outputs are only made in volatile memory, since they can be reproduced at any time from source data.

## Operators
See -> search operators

## Panels
Are controls in the graphical user interface that serve as a navigation aid. They are seen in the user interface on a level. And can be opened and closed for a better overview.

## Plugin
Plugins allow the functionality of the easydb to expand. They are defined via the YAML configuration of the server and can be easily switched on and off.

Pool
Is a storage location for images / files. Similar to a folder, a picture can only be placed in a pool. Pools can, for example, correspond to departments, departments, etc., and can be administrated by IT administrators.

## Investigation
Is reached via the menu on the left.
## Legal management
Controls the access to data and the output of data. It is applicable to the system, the data and users.

## Right Truncation (Right Bound)
See -> truncation

## Tab
See -> Tab

## Session
Is the session from the login process to the logout and is documented in the change log (-> changelog).

## Sidebar
The sidebar is a border window on the left or right side of the easydb. This area in the graphical interface serves either to control the easydb (menu sidebar) or to execute certain functions (editor).

## Single Sign-On (SSO)
Single sign-on solutions enable uniform access control for users and user groups. After the one-time authentication at the workplace, different services can be accessed.

## String
Denotes a string that can contain letters, numbers, and characters. In a string field, all characters are concatenated into a unit and are found as a whole.

## Search
Is located in the menu under -> Recherche. For the search there are different options consisting of -> main search, -> secondary search, -> search filter and combination by -> search operators.

## Search Element
Entries in the search field are recorded as elements. The elements can be erased individually. Entries from the expert search have preceded the marking of the field from which they originate.

## Search Result
-> hits

## Search Field
Is located in the Search view (see menu) above the results. By entering search terms, a -> main search can be performed.

## Search Filter
Filters records found by linked list entries.

## Search Operators
Are commands (boolean logic) <code class="button">-</code>,<code class="button"> + </code>,<code class="button">, </code>,<code class="button"> (</code>,<code class="button">) </code> Search terms.

## SystemRights
Allows access to program functions and areas.

## Tab
Also called -> tab, is a control in the graphical user interface that serves as a navigation aid. The buttons are arranged in analogy to tabs.

## Tags
Distinguish between records. They are used to set the status or release of an image.

## Thumbnails
Are small preview images.

## Token
The individual words in a text or contiguous strings, e.g. (2016) separated by spaces, commas, hyphens, or line breaks.

## Toolbar
Is a toolbar that is visible in the graphical user interface and provides functions, actions, and tools.

## Tooltip
Is a small pop-up window that displays an explanation or description of the function in the graphical user interface. Since it appears when the mouse pointer pauses, it is also known as -> Mouse over.

## Hit (Match)
Are the -> search results / found files, which are displayed in the search view. These result, for example, Through a search, selection, or activation of filters. Maps contain a selection of hits.

## Truncation
Is possible at the beginning of a word (right-aligned, right-bound) or at the beginning of a word (left-aligned, left-bound). Truncation works like a placeholder and is used to consider several variants of a search term at the same time.

## XML / EXIF ​​/ IPTC (read and write)
Can be read by importing metadata profiles (-> Mapping), managed in fields, and written to the file during export.